Detectors/MUON/MCH/Raw/ElecMap/README.md, before:

<!-- doxy
\page refDetectorsMUONMCHRawElecMap Electronic Mapping
/doxy -->

# MCH Raw Electronic Mapping

The electronic mapping offers a few methods to convert electronic-oriented
identifiers (that are found in the raw data) into detector-oriented identifiers.

The raw data references the dual sampa chips relative to a solar board, while
for the rest of the processing we are used to reference them relative to
detection elements.

The solar board based id is represented by the class [DsElecId](include/MCHRawElecMap/DsElecId.h)
while the detection element based one is represented by the class [DsDetId](include/MCHRawElecMap/DsDetId.h)

In addition, one must know to which CRU a given solar board is connected.

As the time of this writing the electronic mapping is still a bit in flux, as :

-   the detector electronic is still being (re)installed
-   the CRU to Solar part is still to be clarified

so things might evolve...

Nevertheless the current mapping is generated from a "master" (google) sheet
that is used at Pt2 for commissionning.
Another mapping (called Dummy) is also provided for testing only.

The API is to be found in [Mapper.h](include/MCHRawElecMap/Mapper.h) file.

## Generation of electronic mapping

The code generation uses the [gen.sh](src/gen.sh) script which basically loops 
on all chambers and call `elecmap.py` for each one, e.g.

```bash
./elecmap.py -gs "MCH Electronic Mapping" -s CH6R --credentials=cred.json -c CH6R
```

(for the moment a credential JSON file is required, we'll try to remove that
constraint as soon as possible)

Commit message:

Update of the MCH Raw Data Decoder (in particular the UserLogic one).
We're introducing in this commit :

-   a new class for the Electronic Mapping
      : the FeeLinkId, which is a pair of (FeeId,LinkId) where FeeId is (or
      will be) ranging from 0 to 61, i.e. to the number of endpoints we have
      for MCH (31 CRUs, each with 2 endpoints), and LinkId from 0 to 11.
-   the electronic mapping for CH8L (needed for DE819 used as a guinea pig
      for various tests)
-   a revamped implementation of the UL decoder

We're removing :

- RawDataHeaderHandler which won't be used in the long term. Currently
we still need to "patch" the buffer to tweak the RDH before passing it
to the PageDecoder, but that is temporary and can be done without
introducing a type (by just patching the raw buffer directly).

A note on the UserLogic Decoder implementation. After some attempts to
use proper State Machine libraries (Boost MSM or boost experimental SML) the
conclusion was that, while they provided somewhat cleaner code, they
suffered from some defects :

-   MSM is (way) too slow to compile
-   SML is faster to compile and seemed
     promising, but we've never been able to completely solve a bug we
     encountered when using it, so had to back off

So we dropped the ball and got back to a hand-made coding of a
state-machine-like decoder. It's not as cleaner than either of the two
libraries above, but ... it works...

Detectors/MUON/MCH/Raw/ElecMap/README.md, after:

<!-- doxy
\page refDetectorsMUONMCHRawElecMap Electronic Mapping
/doxy -->

# MCH Raw Electronic Mapping

The electronic mapping offers a few methods to convert electronic-oriented
identifiers (that are found in the raw data) into detector-oriented identifiers.

The raw data references the dual sampa chips relative to a solar board, while
for the rest of the processing we are used to reference them relative to
detection elements.

The solar board based id is represented by the class [DsElecId](include/MCHRawElecMap/DsElecId.h)
while the detection element based one is represented by the class [DsDetId](include/MCHRawElecMap/DsDetId.h)

In addition, one must know to which CRU a given solar board is connected.  This
is currently handled with the help of the
[FeeLinkId](include/MCHRawElecMap/FeeLinkId.h) class which store a pair
`(FeeId,LinkId)`, where the `FeeId` is basically `cruId * 2 + endpoint`
(remember here that each CRU has two endpoints, each handling 12 links out of
the 24 of a CRU).

As the time of this writing the electronic mapping is still a bit in flux, as :

-   the detector electronic is still being (re)installed
-   the FeeId,LinkId to Solar part is still to be implemented at Pt2

so things might evolve...

Nevertheless the current mapping is generated from a "master" (google) sheet
that is used at Pt2 for commissionning.
Another mapping (called Dummy) is also provided for testing only.

The API is to be found in [Mapper.h](include/MCHRawElecMap/Mapper.h) file.

## Generation of electronic mapping

The code generation uses the [gen.sh](src/gen.sh) script which basically loops 
on all chambers and call `elecmap.py` for each one, e.g.

```bash
./elecmap.py -gs "MCH Electronic Mapping" -s CH6R --credentials=cred.json -c CH6R
```

(for the moment a credential JSON file is required, we'll try to remove that
constraint as soon as possible)
