Detectors/MUON/MCH/Raw/Encoder/README.md, before:

<!-- doxy
\page refDetectorsMUONMCHRawEncoder Encoder
/doxy -->

# MCH Raw Data Encoder

Like the decoder, the encoder deals with two formats (Bare and UserLogic), 
both of which in two different modes (charge sum and sample mode).

Generation of MCH raw data buffers is a two stage process : first we
 build payloads and then only we organize them in (RDH,payload) blocks.

The Encoder is mainly about building *payloads*. How those payloads are ordered
in memory is not the Encoder business. This choice has been made to minimize
the dependency of the Encoder code on the RawDataHeader itself. To that end the
Encoder is producing data buffers consisting of (header,payload) blocks, where
header is *not* a RDH but a simpler (an non versioned) struct. Contrary to
(RDH,payload) blocks, the payload can be any size (in RDH the size is limited
to 65536 bytes).

IMethods are then provided to massage the (header,payload) buffers to produce
 realistic (RDH,payload) buffers that closely ressemble real raw data.

## createEncoder&lt;FORMAT,CHARGESUM>

To creation of a MCH Encoder is handled through a template function. 
For instance, to create an Encoder that builds raw data in BareFormat and 
ChargeSumMode, use : 

```.cpp
#include "MCHRawEncoder/Encoder.h"

auto encoder = o2::mch::raw::Encoder<BareFormat,ChargeSumMode>();

```

Then for each interaction record (aka orbit,bunch crossing pair) you tell 
the encoder to start a new Heartbeat Frame, fill it with all the data 
of the channels and then extract the memory buffer. 

```.cpp
vector<uint8_t> buffer;
for ( loop over interactions )
  encoder->startHeartbeatFrame(orbit,bc);
  for ( loop over digits ) {
    DsElecId elecId = ... // get electronic dual sampa id from digit
    int sampaChannelId = ... // get sampa channel id from digits
    vector<SampaClusters> clusters = ... // create sampa clusters from digits
    encoder->addChannelData(elecId,sampaChannelId,clusters);
  }
  encoder->moveToBuffer(buffer);
}
```

At this stage the buffer contains (header,payload) blocks for all the
inteactions you looped over. But it is *not* yet a valid raw data, as it lacks
RDHs (and has mch-specific headers instead). The `normalizeBuffer` must then
 be used to reach that state.

```.cpp
vector<uint8_t> raw;
o2::mch::raw::normalizeBuffer(buffer,raw,interactions);
```

Now `raw` vector should contain a perfectly valid MCH raw data buffer, 
consisting of (RDH,payload) blocks.

Commit message:

add feeid->cru,link assignment

Detectors/MUON/MCH/Raw/Encoder/README.md, after:

<!-- doxy
\page refDetectorsMUONMCHRawEncoder Encoder
/doxy -->

# MCH Raw Data Encoder

Like the decoder, the encoder deals with two formats (Bare and UserLogic), 
both of which in two different modes (charge sum and sample mode).

Generation of MCH raw data buffers is a two stage process : first we
 build payloads and then only we organize them in (RDH,payload) blocks.

The Encoder is mainly about building *payloads*. How those payloads are ordered
in memory is not the Encoder business. This choice has been made to minimize
the dependency of the Encoder code on the RawDataHeader itself. To that end the
Encoder is producing data buffers consisting of [(header,payload)
blocks](/include/MCHRawEncoder/DataBlock.h), where header is *not* a RDH but a
simpler (and non versioned) struct. Contrary to (RDH,payload) blocks, the
payload can be any size (while in RDH the size is limited to 65536 bytes). The
part of the detector that a payload block reference is identified through a
unique `feeId` field which is the `solarId` in MCH case.

Methods are then provided to massage the (header,payload) buffers to produce
 realistic (RDH,payload) buffers that closely ressemble real raw data.

## createEncoder&lt;FORMAT,CHARGESUM>

To creation of a MCH Encoder is handled through a template function. 
For instance, to create an Encoder that builds raw data in BareFormat and 
ChargeSumMode, use : 

```.cpp
#include "MCHRawEncoder/Encoder.h"

auto encoder = o2::mch::raw::Encoder<BareFormat,ChargeSumMode>();

```

Then for each interaction record (aka orbit,bunch crossing pair) you tell 
the encoder to start a new Heartbeat Frame, fill it with all the data 
of the channels and then extract the memory buffer. 

```.cpp
vector<uint8_t> buffer;
for ( loop over interactions )
  encoder->startHeartbeatFrame(orbit,bc);
  for ( loop over digits ) {
    DsElecId elecId = ... // get electronic dual sampa id from digit
    int sampaChannelId = ... // get sampa channel id from digits
    vector<SampaClusters> clusters = ... // create sampa clusters from digits
    encoder->addChannelData(elecId,sampaChannelId,clusters);
  }
  encoder->moveToBuffer(buffer);
}
```

At this stage the buffer contains (header,payload) blocks for all the
inteactions you looped over. But it is *not* yet a valid raw data, as it lacks
RDHs (and has mch-specific headers instead). The `normalizeBuffer` must then
 be used to reach that state.

```.cpp
vector<uint8_t> raw;
o2::mch::raw::normalizeBuffer(buffer,raw,interactions);
```

Now `raw` vector should contain an almost valid MCH raw data buffer, consisting
of (RDH,payload) blocks. There is one last step, which is to assign a "valid"
(cruId,linkId) to each RDH, i.e. to go from `feeId` (that was transported to
the RDH from the `DataBlockHeader`) to a (cruId,linkId) pair.

```.cpp
auto solar2cru = createSolar2CruLinkMapper<SomeElecMapType>();
assignCruLink(buffer, solar2cru);
```

where `SomeElecMapType` is one of the electronic mapping supported types.
